# The Vikings

Recently I've been following up on a series on netflix, which I started way back in college, titled "The Vikings". This is a History TV produced adaptation of the vikings civilisation. The series started airing its first episode in the year 2013. So far, we've five seasons - fifty episodes - of historically accurate, violent, explicit and blood and gore tale that revolves around the savage ways of the viking culture and how they "found new ways to the new earth".

Vikings are renowned for numerous things. Viking boats, weapons, wars, their sharp-horned-helmets (which, by the way, not true), glorious godly beards, mythology are some of the things that shape their profound culture. I, for one, am extremly intrigued by their boats and mythology - Odin, Thor, Loki, Fenrir, Asgard, Yggdrasil, Valhalla all find special place in my heart. There mythology was the prime reason to watch this series spending hours staring at the screen, and I don't regret, as this brought me to read more about their culture and way of life.

The protagonist of series, Ragnar Lothbruk, a visionary farmer who rises to power to become a cheiftan and a celebrated Norse hero. The series starts of with the viking people reaching a plateau in finding/raiding new lands. They find themselves submitting to the sea lacking any efficient navigating technology. Recent voyages have been a disaster killing many men and women. It seems Thor, the thunder god, doesn't want their people to cross the sea. While many noblemen resort to not risking  lives anymore, Ragnar convinces people to let him carry out the voyage eventually succedding and finding new lands for the pagans to raid.

The Vikings land on the shore of England on a place remote from the main kingdom, hosting a monastory with golden treasures and no soldiers to guard them. Vikings were convinced these new lands, the kingdom of Wessex, certainly promise many riches waiting to be raided. But, Ragnar, has some other plans in mind he's looking for more than riches. Speaking more of the story would be spoiling it for everyone, I would suggest you experience it first-hand.

The Vikings is filmed in Ireland, Cold freezing lakes, high rocky mountains the landscapes as tough as the Vikings. The Vikings delivers on the point of being historically accurate. One torture/execution technique the Vikings fancy called "The Blood Eagle", people with faint heart might not want to google this, is pictorised with insane historic accuracy. The Vikings with no horned-helmets, thank you History TV for getting avoiding the lame horned-helmet Vikings cliche running in Hollywood.
The *Snekkja*, a Viking boat that History TV pulled off with picture perfect accuracy. The lucious glowing-golden locks(The hairs) featuring in the series were accurate too, theres a histroy behind Vikings hairstyle and The Vikings nailed it. (https://www.history.com/shows/vikings/videos/vikings-hair-design) Such little things, that many people are oblivious of, are the ones that really stand out to me, they turn the show on.

There is too much awesomeness in this series to quantify in one blog. I loved it. 10/10 would recommend.
